---
title: Custom Caching for SharePoint – the elegant way
author: Max Melcher
aliases:
   - "/post/2011-08-30-/"
2011: "08"
type: post
date: 2011-08-30T12:40:10+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=8
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Ever accessed a list in a frequent way and wondered how to make that fast ? This post is about HTTPContext.Cache combined with some SharePoint magic.

<!--more-->

## Scenario:

At a client I implemented an awesome expert search. The reason why I implemented a custom search is that a requirement was “Who is Expert on skill XYZ”&#160; - “Who has basic knowledge of "YXZ” – and – “Who is not expert of XXY and has at least basic knowledge of YYZ”.

## How we did it:

We created some lists e.g the User (containing some more info than the UserProfle), Skills, Levels, Area, Category, SubCategory. In the skills list we stored the combinations of the user, area, category, subcategory (in my eyes that’s our definition of a skill). So when we search we basically query the list and return the subset of that list and render that.

Because of a limitation of CAML (you cant query a list with “not contains”) we had to&#160; create some objects and filter them with the given query parameters.

## The Problem:

Every time a user searches for experts the skills list will be queried, The matching users will be resolved (added all their skills, getting data from the UserProfile, eg.) and the workflow is like that:

<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="2" width="600">
  <tr>
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      <strong>Task</strong>
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      <strong>Description</strong>
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      <strong>Duration</strong>
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      Get all skills
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      4000 entries
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      750ms
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      Filter them
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      Remaining 72 entries, 5 users
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      50ms
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      Resolve the users
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      Connecting to the UserProfileService is rather expensive
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      500ms
    </td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      Return the users
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      5 users with all data will be returned and rendered
    </td>
    
    <td valign="top" width="200">
      10ms
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

So roughly 1200ms for every search. That’s a lot – especially when its implemented as a “search as you type”-ajax-realtime-search. No that’s way too much. Its reduces the sexiness and the usability of the system. And the system is not under load and not all users have skills yet&#160; - so its expected to be even slower after some time.

## How to make it faster?

Couple of days ago I started reading the **<a href="http://zimmergren.net/archive/2010/12/18/sp-2010-developing-for-performance-part-1-developer-dashboard.aspx" target="_blank">awesome blog series</a>** about performance from <a href="http://zimmergren.net/default.aspx" target="_blank">Tobias Zimmergren</a> – in Part 3 he talked the caching topic in SharePoint 2010 – and that got me started. After some try an error I started to cache everything and it gave me a **PERFORMANCE BOOST**. On the first search (every search after an iisreset / or app pool recycle is a first search) all skills and all persons are collected and stored in the HTTPContext.Cache. On every subsequent search I check whether the cache is set or not. If not I’ll collect everything and store it. If the skills are in the cache I filter them and return it. So the expensive stuff is in the cache – the fast and dynamic filter queries are done in runtime. Quite easy.

## How to handle a stale cache?
