---
title: Deploying Display Templates for SharePoint 2013 – for the lazy!
author: Max Melcher
aliases:
   - "/post/2013-02-19-/"
2013: "02"
type: post
date: 2013-02-19T13:08:31+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=534
categories:
  - Customization
  - Development
  - Powershell
  - Search
  - SharePoint 2013

---
<font color="#000000">Display Templates are the coolest thing since sliced bread – but how to deploy them in a easy, maintainable and safe way?</font>

## Display Templates

<font color="#000000">Display Templates were introduced with SharePoint 2013. They consist of 2 files, a html file and a associated javascript file. The html file is for our convenience, if you adjust the html file, the ugly javascript file is generated for us by an event receiver.</font>

## Deployment Options

<font color="#000000">There are two different approaches to add Display Templates:</font>

  1. <font color="#000000">Mount the design manager folder as network share and copy the files manually.</font>
  2. <font color="#000000">Mount the design manager folder and copy the Display Templates with Powershell.</font>
  3. <font color="#000000">Create the Display Templates on a Development Environment, export the whole thing. Then import it on a Production Environment.</font>
  4. <font color="#000000">Create a SharePoint Solution in Visual Studio and deploy the Display Templates.</font>

<font color="#000000">Option 1 is a no-go. Goal was a <strong>maintainable & safe way.</strong></font>

<font color="#000000">Option 2: Clever, reproducible results – and I love Powershell.</font>

<font color="#000000"><font color="#000000">Option 3 sounds better and is easy. But the design manager exports everything – importing the wsp on the Production Environment with stuff</font> you that should not be in there – nope, next please.</font>

<font color="#000000">Option 4 is the one with the most work – but as the post title indicate there is an easy option for that.</font>

## Deploy JS and HTML? 

<font color="#000000">Before we look at the deployment lets talk about the pros and cons of deploying </font>

## Use the out of the box tools
