---
title: "Microsoft MVP 2018-2019"
date: 2018-07-02T07:02:45+01:00
aliases:
   - "/post/2018-07-02-MVP-2018-2019/"
2018: "07"
author: "Max Melcher"
image: 
- "/images/2018/MVP/MVP.png"
featured: true
featured: "MVP.png" 
featuredalt : "MVP Award Logo" 
featuredpath : "/images/2018/MVP"
draft: false
categories:
  - MVP
  - Office365
  - Community
  - Azure
  - Development

tags:
  - MVP
  - MVPBuzz
---

If you are on twitter and in the same filter bubble as I am you could not avoid to see many many tweets of fellow MVPs - yesterday was the global MVP reward day!
And, I am happy to announce that I got re-awarded for the 2nd time!
<!--more-->

I usually do not wait for mails - but the next one means a lot to me and I am very honoured to receive it - Microsoft Office Servers and Services MVP for another year:

{{< fancybox "/images/2018/MVP" "MVP_Mail_2018.png" "MVP Award Mail" "single_image" >}}

I assume you know about the award - if not, get more information here: [Microsoft MVP Award Website](http://mvp.microsoft.com/)

## So what am I going to do with it?

My planning for the entire year is obviously not done yet - but in the foreseeable future there will be many more events that I am going to organize and attend. Firstly, there will be [AzureSaturday](https://azuresaturday.de)(hopefully many more of them!). Then there will be a new [SharePoint Saturday in Munich](http://www.spsevents.org/city/Munich) that I am helping to organize - no date yet tho. And one or more global office 365 developer bootcamp in Germany. And did I mention that there is a 10 year anniversary of the SharePoint User Group in Munich - 2018 is packed!
Maybe I find enough energy to blog a little bit more, too...

## Big Thanks!

I want to thank so many people for supporting me and making the most out of it: Friends, colleagues, Microsofties, fellow MVPs that make it so much more fun (especially looking at you Ben and Tom!) - and of course my wife who helps me set my priorities.

Thank you!
